docs(website): add kubernetes autoscaling guide (#25732)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling.md

take two `GetComponents` samples 30 s apart, and diff `receivedBytesTotal` on
the `in` source component to get a per-pod throughput rate. Per-pod CPU is
read via `kubectl top pods` and averaged across all Vector pods.

For example, against a single pod:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n vector-perf pod/<pod-name> 18686:8686 &

grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t0.json
sleep 30
grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t30.json
```

Diffing `receivedBytesTotal` for the `in` component between `t0.json` and
`t30.json`, then dividing by 30 s, gives that pod's throughput.

See [Replicating these results](#replicating-these-results) below for a link to the script that
automates this.

## Setup

Create the namespace and the consumer that drains everything Vector forwards to it:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/namespace.yaml" >}}

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/consumer.yaml" >}}

```bash
kubectl apply -f manifests/namespace.yaml

> kubectl apply -f manifests/consumer.yaml

Author: User should know better.

- **Load generator:** [lading](https://github.com/DataDog/lading),
  generating `apache_common` log lines at a configurable byte rate. It
  maintains persistent parallel connections and is capable of sustained
  high-throughput HTTP load.
- **Load level:** **55 MiB/s** is used across all tests to get comparable
  throughput measurements.
- **Vector pod resources:** **1 vCPU / 2 GiB**, with `requests == limits`
  (Guaranteed QoS), so CPU throttling, not memory pressure or scheduling
  variance, is the only bottleneck under test.

## Architecture

```text
1 × lading pod  (100 parallel connections, 55 MiB/s)
        │  HTTP POST → ingress-nginx ClusterIP :80
        ▼
   Nginx ingress controller  (L7 round-robin per request)
        │
        ▼ (1, 3, or 8 pods depending on phase)
   Vector pod(s)  (1 vCPU / 2 GiB each)
   ┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
   │ source:    http_server :9000         │
   │ transform: parse_regex! (apache_clf) │
   │ sink:      socket TCP → consumer     │
   └──────────────────────────────────────┘
        │  TCP → consumer Service
        ▼
   consumer pod  (socat -u, drains to /dev/null)

> ```

Reviewer: Nit: This would look better as a diagram.

Author: done. Looks very nice now

## Why HTTP + L7 load balancing?

A plain TCP connection has no request boundary: once a client is connected to
a pod, a Kubernetes ClusterIP Service (which load-balances at L4) has no
opportunity to redistribute that traffic to a newly scaled-up pod. HTTP
defines a request boundary, so an L7 load balancer like Nginx can dispatch
each request independently, letting new pods pick up load as soon as they're
Ready.

> A similar setup using HAProxy in TCP mode has the same problem: it

Reviewer: Add link to HAProxy (and generally any keyword when used for the first time)

load-balances at the connection level, so a single producer's connection stays
pinned to one consumer for its lifetime, and can leave some consumers starved
of data entirely.

This is we install an Nginx ingress in front of Vector instead of exposing it
through a plain ClusterIP Service.

## Prerequisites

> - `kubectl` configured against a target cluster

Reviewer: Nit: link to kubectl and the rest of the tools below

- `grpcurl` for metric collection
- [Kubernetes Metrics API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) (`metrics-server`) installed — required for `kubectl top pods` and HPA CPU targets. K3s bundles it by default; on other clusters run `kubectl top nodes` to verify it is available before starting.

## How the metrics are collected

Each Vector pod exposes `ObservabilityService` on port 8686 (gRPC). The
measurement approach used for every phase below is: port-forward to a pod,
take two `GetComponents` samples 30 s apart, and diff `receivedBytesTotal` on
the `in` source component to get a per-pod throughput rate. Per-pod CPU is
read via `kubectl top pods` and averaged across all Vector pods.

For example, against a single pod:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n vector-perf pod/<pod-name> 18686:8686 &

grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t0.json
sleep 30
grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t30.json
```

Diffing `receivedBytesTotal` for the `in` component between `t0.json` and

> `t30.json`, then dividing by 30 s, gives that pod's throughput.

Reviewer: Here you are measuring input bytes at the source as a proxy for "throughput", let's clarify that to be precise.

See [Replicating these results](#replicating-these-results) below for a link to the script that
automates this.

## Setup

Create the namespace and the consumer that drains everything Vector forwards to it:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/namespace.yaml" >}}

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/consumer.yaml" >}}

```bash
kubectl apply -f manifests/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/consumer.yaml

helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
helm upgrade --install ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
  -n ingress-nginx --create-namespace \
  --set controller.service.type=ClusterIP \
  --set controller.replicaCount=1 \
  --wait --timeout=3m

helm repo add vectordotdev https://helm.vector.dev
helm repo update
```

## Phase 1 — Single pod

Vector is installed with the shared base Helm values, which configure the
`http_server` source, the `parse_regex!` transform, and the `socket` sink to
the consumer:

> {{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/scenarios/base/values.yaml" >}}

Reviewer: Long files such as this one can benefit from some section comments (vs single large block of text at the top).

---
date: "2026-07-01"
title: Load balancing and scaling Vector on Kubernetes
short: K8s autoscaling

> description: Observe a single Vector pod hit its CPU ceiling, eliminate it by manually scaling horizontally behind an L7 load balancer, then automate that scaling with the Kubernetes HPA finding its own equilibrium.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Observe a single Vector pod reaching its CPU ceiling, eliminate the ceiling by manually scaling horizontally behind an L7 load balancer, and then automate that scaling with the Kubernetes HPA to reach a stable replica count that maintains target average CPU utilization.
```

authors: ["thomasqueirozb"]
domain: platforms
weight: 7
tags: ["level up", "guides", "guide", "kubernetes", "load balancing", "nginx"]
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Ideally, we need a short opening paragraph (before the "This guide" part) that covers the problem that we're solving. Here's one idea. See what you think.

Scaling a CPU-bound Vector workload on Kubernetes requires more than adding replicas. New pods must also begin receiving traffic as they become available.

Author: Good idea. I added a short problem statement, but intentionally omitted the details here. See a0946a1a4306cf9ae6ad1c5d96d5254d5668eac2

> This guide walks through observing a single Vector pod hit its CPU ceiling while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide, we'll show how a single Vector pod reaches its CPU ceiling while
```

> parsing [Apache Common Log format](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/logs.html#common), then eliminating that ceiling by manually

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parsing [Apache Common Log Format](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/logs.html#common) data. We'll then eliminate that ceiling by manually
```

> scaling horizontally behind [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/). Then we're going to set up automatic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scaling Vector horizontally behind the [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) Ingress Controller, an L7 load balancer. Finally, we'll set up automatic
```

> scaling using Kubernetes [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scaling by using the Kubernetes [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)
```

> (HPA) and let it find its own equilibrium.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to reach a stable replica count that maintains a target average CPU utilization of 70%.
```

> (HPA) and let it find its own equilibrium.

Reviewer 2: Adding the mention of 70% here so that it doesn't come out of nowhere in the prose later.

> All steps are reproducible using the manifests and Helm values in this repository.

Reviewer 2: I wasn't sure what we mean by "this repository." Which repository? Is there supposed to be a link?

Author: Leftover from when this was in a separate dedicated repository

Author: Added a link to the "Replicating these results" section instead. See ae56d7b904a36560116cc70058a0017a093cf4e1

## Background

> Vector's `parse_regex!` transform is CPU-bound: for every incoming log line it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vector's `parse_regex!` transform is CPU-bound: For every incoming log line, the transform
```

executes a compiled Rust regex, allocates capture-group values, and writes a

> structured event downstream.  A single Vector pod limited to 1 vCPU will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
structured event downstream. Under sustained parallel HTTP load, a single Vector pod limited to 1 vCPU will
```

> saturate that core under sustained parallel HTTP load due to the regex

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
saturate that core due to the regex
```

parsing.

> When saturation is reached, Vector applies **backpressure rather than dropping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When CPU saturation occurs, Vector applies **backpressure instead of dropping
```

> events**. The HTTP source stops accepting new requests; Nginx stalls the load

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
events**. As a result, Vector's `http_server` source stops accepting
new requests, causing the NGINX Ingress Controller to wait for Vector
before forwarding additional requests.
```
I tried to clarify this a bit, but I'm not an expert. Please check over this carefully to make sure that it works.

Author: The original wording was off, but NGINX isn't actually queuing/forwarding here. The stall originates in Vector itself. It keeps accepting connections, but stalls/"hangs" each one until it's able to process the backlog.

I updated the wording

> generator's connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Test environment

> The benchmark was measured on a **[K3s](https://k3s.io/) single-node cluster on an [EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) c5.4xlarge**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To evaluate Vector's scaling behavior under a sustained CPU-bound workload, we used a **[K3s](https://k3s.io/) single-node cluster hosted on an [Amazon EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) c5.4xlarge** instance
```

> (16 vCPU, 32 GiB RAM). A single-node cluster was chosen so that latency and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(16 vCPU, 32 GiB RAM). We chose a single-node cluster to eliminate latency and
```

> network overhead are not a factor and collected metrics are precise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
network overhead as factors, making the collected metrics more precise.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We used the following configuration for the tests:
```

- **Load generator:** [lading](https://github.com/DataDog/lading),
  generating `apache_common` log lines at a configurable byte rate. It

>   maintains persistent parallel connections and is capable of sustained

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  maintains persistent parallel connections and is capable of generating sustained
```

  high-throughput HTTP load.

> - **Load level:** **55 MiB/s** is used across all tests to get comparable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Load level:** **55 MiB/s** across all tests to get comparable
```

  throughput measurements.

> - **Vector pod resources:** **1 vCPU / 2 GiB**, with `requests == limits`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Vector pod resources:** **1 vCPU and 2 GiB of memory**, with `requests == limits`
```

>   (Guaranteed QoS), so CPU throttling, not memory pressure or scheduling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Guaranteed QoS) to ensure that CPU throttling, not memory pressure or scheduling
```

>   variance, is the only bottleneck under test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  variance, was the only bottleneck tested.
```

## Architecture

```text
1 × lading pod  (100 parallel connections, 55 MiB/s)
        │  HTTP POST → ingress-nginx ClusterIP :80
        ▼
   Nginx ingress controller  (L7 round-robin per request)
        │
        ▼ (1, 3, or 8 pods depending on phase)
   Vector pod(s)  (1 vCPU / 2 GiB each)
   ┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
   │ source:    http_server :9000         │
   │ transform: parse_regex! (apache_clf) │
   │ sink:      socket TCP → consumer     │
   └──────────────────────────────────────┘
        │  TCP → consumer Service
        ▼
   consumer pod  (socat -u, drains to /dev/null)
```

> ## Why HTTP + L7 load balancing?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Why HTTP with L7 load balancing?
```
I recommend using this as an H3 here under "Architecture." It seems to work here and doesn't interrupt the H2s of "Test environment," "Architecture," "Prerequisites," etc.

> A plain TCP connection has no request boundary: once a client is connected to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A plain TCP connection has no request boundary: Once a client is connected to
```

> a pod, a Kubernetes ClusterIP Service (which load-balances at L4) has no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a pod, a Kubernetes ClusterIP Service (which load-balances at L4) cannot
```

> opportunity to redistribute that traffic to a newly scaled-up pod. HTTP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
redistribute that traffic to a newly created pod. By contrast, HTTP
```

> defines a request boundary, so an L7 load balancer like Nginx can dispatch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defines a request boundary, so an L7 load balancer such as the NGINX Ingress Controller can route
```

> each request independently, letting new pods pick up load as soon as they're

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
each request independently. As new pods become Ready, they can pick up load immediately.
```

> Ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> A similar setup using [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/) in TCP mode has the same problem: it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A similar setup using [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/) in TCP mode has the same limitation as a Kubernetes ClusterIP Service: It
```

load-balances at the connection level, so a single producer's connection stays

> pinned to one consumer for its lifetime, and can leave some consumers starved

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pinned to one consumer for its lifetime and can leave some consumers starved
```

of data entirely.

> This is why we install an Nginx ingress in front of Vector instead of exposing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why we installed an NGINX Ingress Controller in front of Vector instead of exposing
```

> it through a plain ClusterIP Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vector through a ClusterIP Service.
```

## Prerequisites

- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/) configured against a target cluster

> - [`helm`](https://helm.sh/) ≥ 3.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`helm`](https://helm.sh/) version 3.0 or later
```

- At least 9 allocatable CPUs total (8 for Vector at max scale, 0.5 for the consumer, 0.2 for the producer)
- [`grpcurl`](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl) for metric collection

> - [Kubernetes Metrics API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) (`metrics-server`) installed — required for `kubectl top pods` and HPA CPU targets. K3s bundles it by default; on other clusters run `kubectl top nodes` to verify it is available before starting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Kubernetes Metrics API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) (`metrics-server`) installed (This is required for `kubectl top pods` and HPA CPU targets. K3s bundles `metrics-server` by default. On other clusters, run `kubectl top nodes` to verify that `metrics-server` is available before you start.)
```

> ## How the metrics are collected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Collecting throughput and CPU metrics
```

> Each Vector pod exposes [`ObservabilityService`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/blob/master/proto/vector/observability.proto) on port 8686 ([gRPC](https://grpc.io/)). The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Vector pod exposes [`ObservabilityService`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/blob/master/proto/vector/observability.proto) on port 8686 ([gRPC](https://grpc.io/)). For
```

> measurement approach used for every phase below is: port-forward to a pod,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
each phase of our testing, we measured throughput by port-forwarding to a pod,
```

> take two `GetComponents` samples 30 s apart, and diff `receivedBytesTotal` on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
capturing two `GetComponents` samples 30 seconds apart, and calculating the difference in `receivedBytesTotal` for
```

> the `in` source component to get a per-pod throughput rate. Per-pod CPU is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `in` source component to determine a per-pod throughput rate. Per-pod CPU was
```

read via `kubectl top pods` and averaged across all Vector pods.

> For example, against a single pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following commands collect the data used to calculate throughput for a single pod:
```

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n vector-perf pod/<pod-name> 18686:8686 &

grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t0.json
sleep 30
grpcurl -plaintext -d '{}' localhost:18686 \
  vector.observability.v1.ObservabilityService/GetComponents > t30.json
```

> Diffing `receivedBytesTotal` for the `in` component between `t0.json` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The difference in `receivedBytesTotal` for the `in` component between `t0.json` and
```

> `t30.json`, then dividing by 30 s, gives that pod's throughput.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`t30.json`, divided by 30 seconds, gives that pod's throughput.
```

> See [Replicating these results](#replicating-these-results) below for a link to the script that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Replicating these results](#replicating-these-results) for a link to the script that
```

> automates this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automates this process.
```

## Setup

> Create the namespace and the consumer that drains everything Vector forwards to it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following manifests create the namespace and deploy the consumer that drains all data forwarded by Vector:
```

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/namespace.yaml" dir="true" >}}

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/consumer.yaml" dir="true" >}}

```bash
kubectl apply -f manifests/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/consumer.yaml

helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
helm upgrade --install ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
  -n ingress-nginx --create-namespace \
  --version 4.15.1 \
  --set controller.service.type=ClusterIP \
  --set controller.replicaCount=1 \
  --wait --timeout=3m

helm repo add vectordotdev https://helm.vector.dev
helm repo update
```

> ## Phase 1 — Single pod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Phase 1: Single pod
```

> Vector is installed with the shared base Helm values, which configure the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Helm values configure Vector with an
```

> `http_server` source, the `parse_regex!` transform, and the `socket` sink to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`http_server` source, the `parse_regex!` transform, and the `socket` sink that forwards data to
```

the consumer:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/values.yaml" dir="true" >}}

```bash
helm upgrade --install vector vectordotdev/vector --namespace vector-perf --version 0.56.0 -f values.yaml --set replicas=1

kubectl apply -f manifests/ingress.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/producer.yaml
```

> The ingress routes HTTP POSTs to the Vector service at the request level (L7),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Ingress routes HTTP POST requests to the Vector Service at the request level (L7),
```

> which is what lets the HPA find equilibrium in Phase 4:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which enables the HPA to find equilibrium (in other words, settle at a stable replica count) later in Phase 4:
```

Author: The Phase 4/HPA mention here was a bit out of place and inaccurate. This section covers the single-pod setup, HPA isn't introduced until later, so it read as a forward pointer that didn't fit. It also overstated the causality: L7 routing doesn't make the HPA "find equilibrium", it just makes sure every pod gets traffic as soon as it's Ready, regardless of how or why the replica count changes. Reworded to reflect that.

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/ingress.yaml" dir="true" >}}

The producer is [lading](https://github.com/DataDog/lading), configured to
generate `apache_common` log lines at 55 MiB/s across 100 parallel connections:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/producer.yaml" dir="true" >}}

> 55 MiB/s is expected to overwhelm a single pod's regex-parsing capacity, so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At 55 MiB/s, the workload is expected to overwhelm a single pod's regex-parsing capacity.
```

> Vector should back-pressure lading down to whatever it can actually process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the pod reaches CPU saturation, Vector should apply backpressure, reducing the rate at which lading can send data.
```

Author: going with the other suggestion

> Vector should back-pressure lading down to whatever it can actually process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the pod reaches CPU saturation, Vector applies backpressure, reducing the rate at which lading can send data.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resulting throughput and CPU utilization are shown in the following table:
```

<!-- RESULTS-SINGLE-START -->

| Metric | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| Throughput | **16.64 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | **130,863 ev/s** |
| Pod CPU | **1000m (100%)** |
| Bottleneck | **Vector CPU** |

<!-- RESULTS-SINGLE-END -->

> The pod is pinned at its 1000m CPU limit and throughput tops out at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pod is pinned at its 1000m CPU limit, and throughput tops out at
```

> 16.64 MiB/s, confirming the expected CPU ceiling. That per-pod figure is the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
16.64 MiB/s, confirming the expected CPU ceiling. This per-pod throughput is the
```

> baseline the next two phases are measured against.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
baseline that the next two phases are measured against.
```

> ## Phase 2 — Three pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Phase 2: 3 pods
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following commands scale the deployment to three replicas:
```

```bash
kubectl scale deployment vector -n vector-perf --replicas=3
kubectl rollout status deployment/vector -n vector-perf
```

> 55 MiB/s > 3 × 16.64 MiB/s = 49.92 MiB/s combined capacity.  All three pods are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At 55 MiB/s, the workload still exceeds the combined throughput ceiling of three pods (3 × 16.64 MiB/s = 49.92 MiB/s). All three pods remain
```

> still fully saturated. Adding pods increases throughput, but the ceiling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fully saturated.
```
The ceiling has been reached, right? Adding pods increases the ceiling, but doesn't the workload still exceed it? I think the point is made without the last sentence, so I recommend just taking it out.

Author: Mixing ceiling vs saturation here. Removing the sentence is the right call

> hasn't been reached yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

<!-- RESULTS-LB-START -->

| Metric | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| Throughput | **50.47 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | **396,846 ev/s** |
| Pod CPU | **~1000m (100%)** |

> | Scaling vs Phase 1 | **3.03×** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Scaling vs. Phase 1 | **3.03×** |
```

| Bottleneck | **Vector CPU** |

<!-- RESULTS-LB-END -->

> ## Phase 3 — Eight pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Phase 3: 8 pods
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following commands scale the deployment to eight replicas:
```

```bash
kubectl scale deployment vector -n vector-perf --replicas=8
kubectl rollout status deployment/vector -n vector-perf
```

> 8 × 16.64 MiB/s = 133.1 MiB/s combined capacity >> 55 MiB/s.  Vector is no longer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Eight pods provide a combined throughput ceiling of approximately 133.1 MiB/s (8 × 16.64 MiB/s = 133.1 MiB/s), well above the workload's 55 MiB/s. The bottleneck is
```

> the bottleneck; all 55 MiB/s flows through and pods have ample headroom.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
eliminated. All 55 MiB/s flows through, and the pods have ample CPU headroom.
```

<!-- RESULTS-8W-START -->

| Metric | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| Throughput | **56.80 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | **446,650 ev/s** |
| Pod CPU | **~470m (47%)** |
| Bottleneck | **None, spare capacity** |

> The bottleneck has been eliminated.  Each pod handles ~7.1 MiB/s at ~47% CPU,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each pod handles approximately 7.1 MiB/s at about 47% CPU utilization,
```

> leaving over half of each pod's capacity unused.  With L7 per-request routing,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
leaving over half of each pod's capacity unused. With L7 per-request routing,
```

> load is distributed evenly across all 8 pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
load is distributed evenly across all eight pods.
```

<!-- RESULTS-8W-END -->

> ## Comparison

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Comparison: Phases 1–3
```

<!-- RESULTS-COMPARE-START -->

> All phases: **55 MiB/s lading** (100 parallel connections, Nginx L7 ingress),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All phases use a **55 MiB/s lading workload** (100 parallel connections through the L7 NGINX Ingress Controller),
```

> pods limited to **1 vCPU / 2 GiB**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with Vector pods limited to **1 vCPU and 2 GiB of memory**.
```

| | Phase 1 (1 pod) | Phase 2 (3 pods) | Phase 3 (8 pods) |
| - | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Throughput | 16.64 MiB/s | 50.47 MiB/s | **56.80 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | 130,863 | 396,846 | 446,650 |
| CPU per pod | 1000m (100%) | ~1000m (100%) | ~470m (47%) |
| Bottleneck | Vector CPU | Vector CPU | **None** |

> | Scaling vs Phase 1 | 1× | 3.03× | **3.41×** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Scaling vs. Phase 1 | 1× | 3.03× | **3.41×** |
```

<!-- RESULTS-COMPARE-END -->

> We can see that 8 pods is too many, but 3 is too few. At 8 pods we're not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see that eight pods is too many, but three pods is too few. At eight pods, we're not
```

> properly utilizing each pod's capacity, at only 47% average CPU utilization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
properly utilizing each pod's capacity (only 47% average CPU utilization).
```

> ## Phase 4 — HPA finds equilibrium

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Phase 4: HPA finds equilibrium
```

Based on the results of Phase 1, we can estimate how many pods we would need
to spin up to stay under CPU saturation while keeping some headroom. The
saturation crossover is 55 / 16.64 ≈ **3.3 pods** at 100% CPU. At a 70%
utilization target, the expected equilibrium is ⌈3.3 / 0.70⌉ = ⌈4.71⌉ = **5 pods**.

We can now configure the HPA to find the minimum pod count that keeps CPU
utilization around the 70% target.

```bash
# Reset to 1 pod
kubectl scale deployment vector -n vector-perf --replicas=1

# Create HPA (70% CPU target, 1–8 replicas)
kubectl autoscale deployment vector -n vector-perf \
  --cpu-percent=70 --min=1 --max=8
```

> ### Phase 4 results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We did not have this H3 for any of the other phases. I recommend that we keep the same format here.

Author: leftover from a previous iteration

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following timeline shows how the HPA scales the deployment from one replica to five replicas
```

<!-- RESULTS-HPA-START -->

**Scale-up timeline (no manual intervention):**

| Time | Replicas | Avg CPU | Event |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- |
| t=0 s | **1** | 100% | load starts |
| t=30 s | **2** | 100% | HPA scales 1→2 |
| t=90 s | **3** | 98% | HPA scales 2→3 |
| t=136 s | **5** | 100% | HPA scales 3→5 |
| t=196 s | **5** | **71%** | **Stable, equilibrium** |

> Time to equilibrium: **196 s (~3 min)**, 3 scale events, 0 manual cycling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time to equilibrium: **196 seconds (approximately 3 minutes)**, 3 scale events, no manual scaling.
```

> **Throughput at equilibrium: 56.56 MiB/s, 444,744 ev/s, 5 pods, 71% avg CPU.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Throughput at equilibrium: 56.56 MiB/s, 444,744 ev/s, 5 pods, 71% average CPU.**
```

> The HPA settled at 5 pods: CPU converged from 97% immediately after the 3→5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HPA settles at five pods: CPU converges from 97% immediately after the 3→5
```
Keeping present tense here to stay consistent with the other phases.

> scale event down to 71%, within the ±10% tolerance band (63–77%), and held

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scale-up event to 71%, within the ±10% tolerance band (63–77%), and holds
```

> scale event down to 71%, within the ±10% tolerance band (63–77%), and held

Reviewer 2: Regarding "within the ±10 % tolerance band (63–77 %)":

It's not clear where this band comes from or how it's calculated. Is it standardized or something we decided to use? It's probably not worth going into all of that. If it works for you, the best thing might be to replace "within the ±10% tolerance band (63–77%)" with "close to the 70% target". But if you think your audience will understand it without having more questions after reading it, feel free to keep it as is.

Author: Agreed it is not clear. It matches the HPA controller's default tolerance (--horizontal-pod-autoscaler-tolerance, default 0.1). Added a citation so it doesn't come out of nowhere.

> stable for three consecutive 15 s intervals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
stable for three consecutive 15-second intervals.
```

<!-- RESULTS-HPA-END -->

## Results summary

| | Phase 1 (1 pod) | Phase 2 (3 pods) | Phase 3 (8 pods) | Phase 4 (HPA) |
| - | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Throughput | 16.64 MiB/s | 50.47 MiB/s | 56.80 MiB/s | **56.56 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | 130,863 | 396,846 | 446,650 | **444,744** |
| CPU per pod | 1000m (100%) | ~1000m (100%) | ~470m (47%) | **~710m (71%)** |
| Bottleneck | Vector CPU | Vector CPU | None | None |

> | Scaling vs Phase 1 | 1× | 3.03× | 3.41× | **3.40×** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Scaling vs. Phase 1 | 1× | 3.03× | 3.41× | **3.40×** |
```

| Pod count | manual (1) | manual (3) | manual (8) | **auto (5)** |

> Phase 4 reaches Phase 3's throughput with 3 fewer pods and no manual scaling:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Phase 4 reaches Phase 3's throughput with three fewer pods and no manual scaling.
```

> the HPA found exactly 5 pods, matching the theoretical prediction of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HPA scales to five pods, matching the prediction
```

> ⌈(55 / 16.64) / 0.70⌉ = 5, and kept CPU near its 70% target instead of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and keeping CPU near its 70% target instead of
```

> leaving ~53% headroom idle on every pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
leaving each pod with roughly 53% of unused CPU capacity.
```

> ## Key takeaways

Reviewer 2: My recommendation here is to approach this section with this question in mind: "What should the reader remember after reading this guide?"

I think that you did a good job of covering the numerical results earlier, and I don't recommend repeating them here. I think it's the insights, not the specific numbers, that are important takeaways for the reader. So, my suggestions are going to reflect this philosophy.

Author: Applied the suggestions made here. Only added a small caveat. See 0be6c6a48c949dc3c4a3dcdffafd2a5e00da2cd6

> 1. **A single pod caps at its CPU limit.**  At 55 MiB/s load, 1 pod can absorb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **A CPU-bound workload eventually reaches the processing capacity of a single Vector pod**.
```

>    only ~16.6 MiB/s.  Back-pressure prevents any event loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When that happens, backpressure prevents any event loss.
```

> 2. **L7 per-request routing distributes load uniformly.**  Because Nginx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **L7 per-request routing distributes load uniformly.**  Because the NGINX Ingress Controller
```

>    dispatches each HTTP request independently, every pod, old or newly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   routes each HTTP request independently, every pod (old or newly
```

>    Ready, receives a share of traffic proportional to the current replica

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Ready) receives a share of traffic proportional to the current replica
```

   count, with no idle pods.

> 3. **Adding pods beyond the saturation point removes the bottleneck entirely.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Adding pods beyond the saturation point removes the CPU bottleneck entirely.** Once the workload is no longer CPU-bound, throughput increases while CPU utilization per pod decreases.
```

If you like the idea not to repeat the results, feel free to tweak this suggestion (the second sentence) as you see fit.

>    Phase 3 (8 pods) delivers the full 55 MiB/s with each pod at ~47% CPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   
```

>    The saturation crossover is at ~3.3 pods; at the 70% HPA target that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   
```

>    predicts ⌈3.3 / 0.70⌉ = 5 pods, exactly what Phase 4 observed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   
```

> 4. **HPA finds the right pod count automatically.**  With HTTP + L7 routing,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **The HPA determines the right pod count automatically.**  With HTTP and L7 routing,
```

>    every new pod starts receiving traffic immediately after becoming Ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   each new pod starts receiving traffic immediately after becoming Ready.
```

>    HPA converged at 5 pods in 196 s with zero manual intervention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   
```

---

## Replicating these results

The [`terraform/`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/terraform)

> directory provisions the K3s single-node cluster (EC2 `c5.4xlarge`) the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directory provisions the K3s single-node cluster (EC2 `c5.4xlarge`) that
```

> benchmark above was measured on, if you don't already have a cluster to test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we used, if you don't already have a cluster to test
```

against.

Once the [Setup](#setup) steps are complete and Phase 1's producer and ingress
are deployed, `run-experiment.sh` runs all four phases end to end: scaling the
deployment, waiting for each rollout, measuring throughput, and creating the

> HPA for Phase 4, then prints a single results table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HPA for Phase 4. It then prints a single results table.
```

All phases use a **55 MiB/s lading workload** (100 parallel connections through the L7 NGINX Ingress Controller),
with Vector pods limited to **1 vCPU and 2 GiB of memory**.

| | Phase 1 (1 pod) | Phase 2 (3 pods) | Phase 3 (8 pods) |
| - | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Throughput | 16.64 MiB/s | 50.47 MiB/s | **56.80 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | 130,863 | 396,846 | 446,650 |
| CPU per pod | 1000m (100%) | ~1000m (100%) | ~470m (47%) |
| Bottleneck | Vector CPU | Vector CPU | **None** |
| Scaling vs. Phase 1 | 1× | 3.03× | **3.41×** |

<!-- RESULTS-COMPARE-END -->

We can see that eight pods is too many, but three pods is too few. At eight pods, we're not
properly utilizing each pod's capacity (only 47% average CPU utilization).

## Phase 4: HPA finds equilibrium

Based on the results of Phase 1, we can estimate how many pods we would need
to spin up to stay under CPU saturation while keeping some headroom. The
saturation crossover is 55 / 16.64 ≈ **3.3 pods** at 100% CPU. At a 70%
utilization target, the expected equilibrium is ⌈3.3 / 0.70⌉ = ⌈4.71⌉ = **5 pods**.

We can now configure the HPA to find the minimum pod count that keeps CPU

> utilization around the 70% target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
utilization around the 70% target:
```

```bash
kubectl scale deployment vector -n vector-perf --replicas=1  # Reset to 1 pod
kubectl rollout status deployment/vector -n vector-perf --timeout=120s  # Wait for scale-down

# Create HPA (70% CPU target, 1–8 replicas)
kubectl autoscale deployment vector -n vector-perf \
  --cpu-percent=70 --min=1 --max=8
```

> The following timeline shows how the HPA scales the deployment from one replica to five replicas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following timeline shows how the HPA scales the deployment from one replica to five replicas:
```

<!-- RESULTS-HPA-START -->

> **Scale-up timeline (no manual intervention):**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Time | Replicas | Avg CPU | Event |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- |

> | t=0 s | **1** | 100% | load starts |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| t=0 s | **1** | 100% | Load starts |
```

| t=30 s | **2** | 100% | HPA scales 1→2 |
| t=90 s | **3** | 98% | HPA scales 2→3 |
| t=136 s | **5** | 100% | HPA scales 3→5 |
| t=196 s | **5** | **71%** | **Stable, equilibrium** |

Time to equilibrium: **196 seconds (approximately 3 minutes)**, 3 scale events, no manual scaling.

**Throughput at equilibrium: 56.56 MiB/s, 444,744 ev/s, 5 pods, 71% average CPU.**

The HPA settles at five pods: CPU converges from 97% immediately after the 3→5
scale-up event to 71%, within the ±10% tolerance band (63–77%) set by the
[`--horizontal-pod-autoscaler-tolerance`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-controller-manager/)
flag's `0.1` default, and holds stable for three consecutive 15-second intervals.

<!-- RESULTS-HPA-END -->

### Stabilizing at 6?

All the calculations made and empirical evidence suggests that 5 is the correct
number of pods for the HPA to find the equilibrium. However, running this a few

> times might yield different results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the calculations and empirical evidence suggest that 5 is the correct
number of pods for the HPA to find the equilibrium. However, running this phase of testing a few
times might yield different results.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following timeline shows a test run in which the HPA stabilized at six pods instead of the expected five:
```

| Time | Replicas | Avg CPU | Event |
| ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- |

> | t=0 s | **1** | 100% | load starts |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| t=0 s | **1** | 100% | Load starts |
```

| t=30 s | **2** | 100% | HPA scales 1→2 |
| t=60 s | **3** | 98% | HPA scales 2→3 |
| t=90 s | **5** | 99% | HPA scales 3→5 |
| t=120 s | **7** | 71% | HPA scales 5→7 |
| t=150 s | **7** | 52% |       —        |
| t=180 s | **6** | 52% | HPA scales 7→6 |
| t=300 s | **6** | **61%** | **Stable, equilibrium** |

But... Why? We are using the 70% CPU threshold and didn't alter the autoscaler's
default 10% tolerance band. 61% is clearly outside the 63-77% band. This only
happened because the HPA overshot the pod count — and it's possible this occured
due to a variety of reasons, with the likely explanation that some pods running slower than expected.
However, according to the HPA algorithm both are valid resting points. After
determining that the current CPU load falls outside the threshold, it then
calculates the number of pods according to the following formula

> ([source](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/v1.36.2/pkg/controller/podautoscaler/replica_calculator.go#L117-L118)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But ... why did the HPA settle at six pods? We are using the 70% CPU threshold and didn't alter the HPA's
default 10% tolerance band. Yet the observed CPU utilization of 61% is clearly outside the resulting 63–77% target range. This happened because the HPA overshot the pod count, likely because some pods parsed data more slowly than the benchmark predicted.

However, according to the HPA algorithm, both five pods and six pods are valid stable replica counts. When the HPA determines that the current CPU utilization falls outside the target range, it calculates the desired number of pods according to the following formula ([source](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/v1.36.2/pkg/controller/podautoscaler/replica_calculator.go#L117-L118)):
```

```text
desired = ⌈ currentReplicas × (currentAvgCPU / 70%) ⌉
```

This can lead to some very interesting results, just like the 6 pod stabilization,

> even though the CPU load falls squarely out of bounds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This calculation can produce unexpected but valid outcomes, such as the six-pod stabilization observed in the repeated Phase 4 run,
even when the average CPU utilization falls outside the configured target range. When the HPA recalculates the desired replica count using the observed 61% CPU utilization, it still selects six pods:
```

```text
desired = ⌈ 6 × (61% / 70%) ⌉ = ⌈ 5.2285714286 ⌉ = 6
```

Given that past the saturation point the workload is no longer CPU-bound. So
the *total* CPU demand is fixed and the HPA just spreads it across whatever pods
exist. Slower pods change this number: a pod that parses 10% slower needs ~10% more CPU

> for the same 55 MiB/s, raising the total; faster pods lower it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the deployment passes the saturation point, the workload is no longer CPU-bound. The *total* CPU demand becomes fixed, and the HPA spreads that demand across the available pods. Slower pods change this number: A pod that parses 10% slower needs approximately 10% more CPU
for the same 55 MiB/s workload, increasing the total CPU demand. Faster pods reduce the total CPU demand.
```

Doing some calculations based on Phase 1's results, we can get the total

> workload demand based on each pod's capacity:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on Phase 1's results, we can calculate the total
CPU demand based on each pod's capacity:
```

```text
total CPU demand = (55 / 16.64) × 100% = 330.5 pod-percent
```

Based on the calculated total CPU demand we can calculate theoretical
stabilization pod counts. The table below sweeps the per-pod speed ±10% (and

> also 15% slower).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the total CPU demand, we can calculate theoretical
stabilization pod counts. The following table shows the theoretical stabilization points for per-pod speeds ranging from 10% faster than the benchmark to 15% slower. A ✅ indicates a stable resting point.
```

> (✅ = stable resting point):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Per-pod speed vs. benchmark | +10% faster | Benchmark | 10% slower | 15% slower |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- |

> | Per-pod throughput (MiB/s)  | 18.3        | 16.64     | 15.0       | 14.1       |

Reviewer 2: This is different from the other tables, where you put the MiB/s label in each cell of the row. I recommend staying consistent here.

| Total CPU demand            | 300%        | 330%      | 367%       | 389%       |
| **4 pods**                  | 75% ✅      | 83%       | 92%        | 97%        |
| **5 pods**                  | 60% ✅      | 66% ✅    | 73% ✅     | 78%        |
| **6 pods**                  | 50%         | 55%       | 61% ✅     | 65% ✅     |
| **7 pods**                  | 43%         | 47%       | 53%        | 56%        |

We can see that these values are theoretical, since they're based on Phase 1's results.
Even when we stabilized at the expected 5 pods the CPU utilization was around 70%
instead of the projected 66%. Real world scenarios will likely fall somewhere
in between the benchmark and the 10% slower band, which can lead to the results

> we observed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These values are theoretical because they're based on Phase 1's results.
Even when the HPA stabilized at the expected five pods, the observed CPU utilization was around 70%
instead of the projected 66%. Real-world scenarios will likely fall somewhere
in between the benchmark and the 10% slower band, which can lead to the results
we observed.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comparing the observed CPU utilization (71%) with the theoretical prediction (66%) shows a difference of 7.57%:
```

```text
((71% - 66%) / 66%) × 100 = 7.57
```

> In the original Phase 4 run we're about 7.57% slower than the predicted benchmark.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This suggests that the pods in the original Phase 4 run parsed data about 7.57% more slowly than the predicted benchmark.
```

   Ready) receives a share of traffic proportional to the current replica
   count, with no idle pods.

3. **Adding pods beyond the saturation point removes the CPU bottleneck entirely.** Once the workload is no longer CPU-bound, throughput increases while CPU utilization per pod decreases.

4. **The HPA determines the right pod count automatically.**  With HTTP and L7 routing,
   each new pod starts receiving traffic immediately after becoming Ready.

\* This holds only as long as the stalled connection stays open. If the NGINX
Ingress Controller or the load generator times out and closes a stalled
connection first, the in-flight request's events are lost along with it.

---

## Replicating these results

The manifests, Helm values, and scripts used throughout this guide live in
[`k8s-autoscaling/`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling).

The [`terraform/`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/terraform)
directory provisions the K3s single-node cluster (EC2 `c5.4xlarge`) that
we used, if you don't already have a cluster to test

> against.

Reviewer 2: I'm getting 404s for the two links here.

pipeline, not a platform that handles scaling or load balancing automatically.

In this guide, we'll show how a single Vector pod reaches its CPU ceiling while
parsing [Apache Common Log Format](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/logs.html#common) data. We'll then eliminate that ceiling by manually
scaling Vector horizontally behind the [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) Ingress Controller, an L7 load balancer. Finally, we'll set up automatic
scaling by using the Kubernetes [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)
to reach a stable replica count that maintains a target average CPU utilization of 70%.

All steps in this guide are reproducible. See [Replicating these results](#replicating-these-results)
for the manifests and Helm values used.

## Background

Vector's `parse_regex!` transform is CPU-bound: For every incoming log line, the transform
executes a compiled Rust regex, allocates capture-group values, and writes a
structured event downstream. Under sustained parallel HTTP load, a single Vector pod limited to 1 vCPU will
saturate that core due to the regex
parsing.

> When CPU saturation occurs, Vector applies **backpressure instead of dropping
> events**. Vector's `http_server` source keeps accepting connections but stalls
> on responses until it can process the backlog, so the NGINX Ingress
> Controller and the load generator experience stalled connections. This only
> avoids event loss as long as those stalled connections stay open. If the
> NGINX Ingress Controller or the load generator times out and closes one
> first, the in-flight request's events are lost along with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When CPU saturation occurs, Vector applies **backpressure instead of dropping
events**. Vector's `http_server` source keeps accepting connections but stalls
on responses until it can process the backlog, so the NGINX Ingress
Controller and the load generator experience stalled connections. This backpressure mechanism
avoids event loss only as long as those stalled connections stay open. If the
NGINX Ingress Controller or the load generator times out and closes a connection
first, the in-flight request's events are lost along with it.
```

helm upgrade --install ingress-nginx ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
  -n ingress-nginx --create-namespace \
  --version 4.15.1 \
  --set controller.service.type=ClusterIP \
  --set controller.replicaCount=1 \
  --wait --timeout=3m

helm repo add vectordotdev https://helm.vector.dev
helm repo update
```

## Phase 1: Single pod

The following Helm values configure Vector with an
`http_server` source, the `parse_regex!` transform, and the `socket` sink that forwards data to
the consumer:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/values.yaml" dir="true" >}}

```bash
helm upgrade --install vector vectordotdev/vector --namespace vector-perf --version 0.56.0 \
  -f values.yaml --set replicas=1 --wait --timeout=3m

kubectl apply -f manifests/ingress.yaml
kubectl apply -f manifests/producer.yaml
```

The following Ingress routes HTTP POST requests to the Vector Service at the request level (L7),
so every pod receives a share of traffic as soon as it's Ready, independent of how or why the replica count changes:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/ingress.yaml" dir="true" >}}

> Note that `proxy-read-timeout` and `proxy-send-timeout` are left at their
> 60s defaults. Under overload, a stalled connection that exceeds those
> timeouts is closed by NGINX before Vector finishes processing it, losing
> that request's events rather than just delaying them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that `proxy-read-timeout` and `proxy-send-timeout` are left at their
60-second defaults. Under overload, a stalled connection that exceeds those
timeouts is closed by NGINX before Vector finishes processing it, losing
that request's events rather than just delaying them.
```

generate `apache_common` log lines at 55 MiB/s across 100 parallel connections:

{{< embed file="content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/manifests/producer.yaml" dir="true" >}}

At 55 MiB/s, the workload is expected to overwhelm a single pod's regex-parsing capacity.
When the pod reaches CPU saturation, Vector applies backpressure, reducing the rate at which lading can send data.

The resulting throughput and CPU utilization are shown in the following table:

<!-- RESULTS-SINGLE-START -->

| Metric | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| Throughput | **16.64 MiB/s** |
| Events/s | **130,863 ev/s** |
| Pod CPU | **1000m (100%)** |
| Bottleneck | **Vector CPU** |

<!-- RESULTS-SINGLE-END -->

The pod is pinned at its 1000m CPU limit, and throughput tops out at
16.64 MiB/s, confirming the expected CPU ceiling. This per-pod throughput is the
baseline that the next two phases are measured against.

## Phase 2: 3 pods

The following commands scale the deployment to three replicas:

```bash
kubectl scale deployment vector -n vector-perf --replicas=3
kubectl rollout status deployment/vector -n vector-perf
```

At 55 MiB/s, the workload still exceeds the combined throughput ceiling of three

> pods (3 × 16.64 MiB/s = 49.92 MiB/s). All three pods remain still fully saturated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pods (3 × 16.64 MiB/s = 49.92 MiB/s). All three pods remain fully saturated.
```

   Ready) receives a share of traffic proportional to the current replica
   count, with no idle pods.

3. **Adding pods beyond the saturation point removes the CPU bottleneck entirely.** Once the workload is no longer CPU-bound, throughput increases while CPU utilization per pod decreases.

4. **The HPA determines the right pod count automatically.**  With HTTP and L7 routing,
   each new pod starts receiving traffic immediately after becoming Ready.

\* This holds only as long as the stalled connection stays open. If the NGINX
Ingress Controller or the load generator times out and closes a stalled
connection first, the in-flight request's events are lost along with it.

---

## Replicating these results

The manifests, Helm values, and scripts used throughout this guide live in
[`k8s-autoscaling/`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling).

The [`terraform/`](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/website/content/en/guides/level-up/k8s-autoscaling/terraform)
directory provisions the K3s single-node cluster (EC2 `c5.4xlarge`) that
we used, if you don't already have a cluster to test

> against.

Reviewer 2: I got a 404 for these two links. Just pointing it out in case I wasn't supposed to.
